Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
talking with Ryan Buckley. She is
the co founder and CEO
at fit code. This is
a company that helps women's
of all shapes and sizes
shop with confidence using a
technology to make it happen.
How are you? I'm well,
how are you, Scott? Very
well. Thanks for chatting with
me today. You've got an
interesting product here and it
seems like it's going to
well disrupt an industry that
I don't think is particularly
technologically savvy. I don't think
of the fashion industry as
being at the forefront of,
of tech. Yeah. You know,
we couldn't agree more. It's
a interesting place to be
in this, this beautiful fashion
tech space. And what we're
trying to do is just
bring technology to an industry
that could really use it.
So, you know, we've all
heard about where retail's at
right now. And our goal
is to make the whole
process of online shopping easier
and more transparent and more
successful for our customers and
the retailers. So it's a
really exciting time to be
in the space. When I
think of the technology that
I have used in retail,
it's, you know, I used
to work@acompanycalledeighthundred.com and we sold
DVDs. So it's the same
shopping cart we've been using
for 15 years. The lockout
process, you know, we have
things like Stripe, but for
the most part, we, we
scroll through pictures. Some of
which are nice pictures on
which are not. We pick
products, we try them out.
And the most innovation I've
seen is, you know, a
Zappos lets you return the
shoes that don't fit, but
there's not a lot going
on. In fact, the only
really interesting technology that I
saw was at Amazon where
you could spin the model
360 degrees and see what
the, what the outfit looks
like. But it sounds like
you think that there's a
bigger problem and that's the
fit of the clothing. Yeah.
You know, I think there
are two big problems, one
it's that people want to
shop online and we're not
making that easy for customers.
There's obviously the fit problem
too. But first things first
it's, you know, as a
customer, you go onto a
big online retailer or brand
website and you see hundreds
to thousands of images of
denim specifically, and customers don't
know where to start. So
since they don't have dressing
rooms and since it's all
e-commerce now they don't know
what genes to choose. And
so that's where a fit
code comes in. We say,
Hey, let's take all noise
out of the process, take
this quick quiz. And then
we're going to narrow all
this down for you and
make it easier from there.
We of course focus on
the fit and that that's
the biggest issue right now
is, you know, really getting
these brands to make jeans
that fit their customer base.
Is this primarily focused on
women? Because as a man,
I would very much like
a 33 34 pair of
jeans and I can, I
can't really find them in
the store. Like they're either
too big or they're too
tight. Absolutely. So right now
we just do women's denim,
but we're actually going to
be launching with men's this
fall. So we're super excited
to do that. So yeah.
So beyond the lookout, we,
we will reach out and
get you those size 33
jeans. Okay. See, that's pretty
cool. I like that. I
would even be cooler if
I could, like, I don't
know, take a selfie and
then you could figure out
what my shape is and
fill the quiz out for
me. Yeah. That would be
pretty cool. You know, interestingly
enough, Scott, when we were
doing a bunch of this
beta research, when we first
found in this project is
that we realized that, you
know, we started with women
and we realized that while
they need a technical solution,
because we need to be
able to integrate on these
eCommerce sites, they don't want
a really technical product. And
I think that goes for
men and women's yeah. So,
you know, think about when
you're shopping online, most people
are doing it while doing
another, another activity. They're, you
know, watching for me, it's
watching real Housewives, you know,
whatever you're watching and you
just want to sign on
real quick, find the jeans
that fit and then get
back to your daily, you
know, activities. Interesting. Okay. So
you, you go in to
ask these questions and they're
pretty straightforward and it's, it's
not complicated. It's, it's a
10, I don't know, 10
seconds. My wife went through
it and 10 seconds came
up with a fit code.
She has a number now,
not a measurement, but a
number that's seven, 10. And
the in encapsulated within that
number is a lot of
things more than just your
inseam and your waist. Absolutely.
So the fit codes are
arbitrary three digit numbers that
represent a body shape. So
within the fit code, there
can be a whole range
of sizes. And then of
course there are all the
genes that map to that
fit code. So we know
all the measurements, we standardize
them across brands. So we
know how, you know, one
brand fits against another because
we all know how it
is. You can be, you
know, a size 28 and
one gene and the size
29, another brand. And you
just don't know what size
to buy. So all of
that data lives under the
fit code. Okay. So I've
got this, this number and
then what do I do
with it? Do I go
over to instant to search
for that number? Or do
I, does it know my
profile now? And it only
shows me things that are
the right fit. Yeah. So
it knows your profile. And
when you press shop now,
after getting your fit code,
you'll see that, you know,
on a website like Joe's
jeans who just integrated with
us a couple of weeks
ago, you'll see that we
actually do what we call
badging. And so your fit
code seven, 10 icon is
going to pop up on
any of the gene images
that are gonna fit you.
So now when you're searching
through all of these product
images, we make it really
clear. We say, Hey, here
are the ones that are
going to fit. And then
once you open it, we
tell you what size to
buy in it. But for
us, you know, we really
come from a space of
wanting to focus on fit,
not size. So first things
first we have to make
sure this Jean flatters your
body type, and then we
can tell you what size
to buy in it. Okay.
Interesting. So Joe's jeans is
a partner. You are not
Joe's jeans, you're fit code,
but then they integrate with
you. Exactly. Okay. So then
I take that code over
there. And now that I
know that it's almost like
my sleep number. That's an
awesome, I haven't heard that,
but that is an awesome
way to think about it.
Yes. Look at the sleep
number bed, like that's become
part of the ethos. We
all know what that is.
Now. The fit code will
become that as well. Yeah.
You know, that's our goal.
We want people to someday
wonder how they ever shopped
at that free code. You
know, how did you shop
without someone coming in and
calling you, Hey, here are
the products to buy and
this is the size to
buy it in. Okay. So
let's talk a little bit
about technology. You've got this
number that, and there's, you
know, I don't know how
many combinations there are. I'm
looking at your, your quiz
there. That probably hundreds of
comments. There are quite a
few. Yes. Yeah. So then
you come up with this
number and your technology is,
it looks like it's JavaScript
inside of the fit code.com.
How do I, if I'm
a, a reseller of jeans
or if I'm a fashion
brand and I want to
make sure that people with
fit codes can come and
find the right pants, how
do I integrate? Yeah. So
our big thing is we
want to make it really
easy for these brands. So
we know they have other
businesses to attend to, and
we want to make this
technology integration super, super easy.
So we just do JavaScript.
We integrate straight on their
front end and then we
control everything from there. So
if you're on a Joe's
jeans website, what you do
is you'll see a little
button that says, take your
fit quiz. And then you
can take the code quiz
right on the Joe's jeans
website, and then you press
shop now. And that whole
experience, it's now personalized for
you. Oh, okay. So they
don't even have to, to
'em as Joe's jeans, doesn't
have to implement anything. They're
getting your, your quiz and
your, and that, and that
number built in automatically on
their website. Exactly. And you
don't have to go to
dot com. So our,
you know, our whole thing
is we want to leave
the customers right on our
partner websites. We don't want
to pull them away for
anything. We just want the
customer to be able to
stay right on the Joe's
gene site and shop successfully
right there. That's interesting. Now,
as, as someone who has
a company that you're promoting
and that you're talking about
though, doesn't by allowing them
to, to integrate like that
doesn't that downplay the fit
code site, or are you
trying to do that? And
you really want to make
it about the brand that
the person likes. Yeah. We
really want to make it
about the brand. So when
I first started fit code,
we had to fit code.com.
And that's really where we
gathered our information. It was
where we tested and what's
where we tried new things
and, you know, or able
to see if they worked
or not. So if it
covid.com is a place where
our customers can still go
and you can shop across
all sorts of brands. But
we started realizing that, you
know, the world doesn't need
another marketplace. What they need
is they need the experiences
where they're comfortable, which is
on a brand of retail
website, just to be easier.
So if we could figure
out a way to do
that, we could be successful.
And that's why we switched
to JavaScript. Oh, interesting. Okay.
So before you were doing
something other than Jarvis, Yeah.
When we first started, we
actually did a plugin. So
a browser plugin. So the
whole idea that you could
take your fit code, shopping,
wherever you went. And again,
we just realized that that
was a bit too technical
and we didn't need to
do that. So let's just
integrate right onto the partner
website. Let's make it seamless
and that's been successful for
us so far. Interesting. Okay.
So I'm here. I'm just,
while we're talking, I went
over to Joe's jeans.com, which
is one of the partner
websites and went looking and
then there's a badge. It
looks like a black circle
with a stylized FSC. And
it says seven 10, which
is the code number that
my wife got. And it
says here, perfect fit found
this style has been fit,
tested, and approved for fit
code seven 10. How are
you measuring these? When I
think of jeans again, I
think of waste. And I
think of inseam, are you
a, I don't know, finding
seven, 10 people and they
all go try the pants
on or how is there
something more technical behind it?
Yeah. You know, there is,
there's definitely, definitely more technical
answers behind that. But the
big thing is our founding
principle that you can have
a bunch of women who
wear the exact same size
and they can be totally
different body shapes. So what
we do to make sure
that, you know, we're telling
your wife that that's the
right Joe's jeans for her,
is that we actually fit
test all the genes. So
our partners send us their
entire inventory. We have in
our office. It's awesome. And
we call it the denim
cave because we just have
hundreds and hundreds of genes.
But what we do is
we bring in women all
of the same size, but
all different body shapes. And
they try on every single
pair of jeans. So we
can see how that gene
is going to fit across
all body shapes. We then
marry that to a beautiful
technical process where we have
all the measurements that are
standardized and we know how
these things are going to
map to fit codes. And
then that's how we spit
out the recommendations for our
customers. I see. And the
fit code is the secret
sauce that I can, I
can know that if I
have that number, then I'm
going to get a pair
of pants that fit me.
Exactly. So you're talking about
jeans right now, but it
seems like this could scale
to other things like know
shirts. I always have that
trouble where I'm at. If
you've ever seen someone like
a man wearing a shirt
and you say that's a
medium, right, absolutely. I'm in
that awkward. Like I need
a medium, that's not a
large cause a large as
a poncho and a medium
for me as this medium,
this, this fit code could
go to other, other clothing.
Couldn't it? Not just jeans.
Absolutely could. So we're going
to men's denim next, just
because that's what we've tested
and we have built out,
but then we have other
apparel I'm already built into
the algorithm so we can
go there next year. Very
cool. Okay. So what is
the backend? I understand. And
this is a coincidence, by
the way. I, I, I
tend to work at Microsoft,
but I understand that you
have some Microsoft tools in
the backend as well. Yeah.
So we collect a lot
of data and so we
need to have pretty powerful
tools to build, to look
at that data and figure
out what to do with
it. So the biggest piece
about the FICO data is
we want to make sure
everything's very actionable. So we're
collecting data, not only from
our customers, but from our
partner sites. So we know
how customers are engaging in
it, how they're converting, which
is our biggest success metric.
And then we need to
be able to serve all
this back to our partners
in an actionable and insightful
way. So you've got thousands
of users, Thousands of genes,
thousands of measurements. And you're
going to have to go
and put all of that
in, in the backend and
manage all that data. That's
cool. Now I'm looking at
your LinkedIn and it looks
like you've been the CEO
of fit code for three
years, but you were, or
I assume that you, are
you still a working model?
It looks like you worked
as a model for at
least eight years. Yeah. I'm
still a working model. I'm
taking less jobs now, as
this company has gotten busier
and busier, but I still
do shoot here and there
Maybe very, very briefly. You
could explain that, that term
working model. Cause I have
friends that are working models
that do you know, I
have a great friend who
does Amazon shots so that
when you look on Amazon
and you see the clothing,
that's my friend. And, but
that's, that's different than runway
work. That's different than print
work, et cetera. Yeah, absolutely.
So I was your friend
for a few years. I
shot Amazon when they were
still located in Seattle. Their
photo studio is based in
Seattle now it's not, but
I shot for them, you
know, Monday through Friday of
most weeks. And so a
work in model when we
say that it's means that
you're usually doing commercial work.
So you're doing work for
all these e-commerce companies, you
know, for years. And one
of the reasons why I
started@greatcodewasiwasthosetwolegsyousawonnordstrom.com. So all of those
jeans, I was shooting them.
So I got this really
unique behind the scenes experience
and view of what's going
wrong here. You know, what
people are seeing in these
e-commerce photos and what the
companies are trying to sell,
you know, they're just not
lining up. So that's why,
you know, I found it
fit code, but back to
the work model piece, it
really just means that, you
know, it's our way, it's
our bread and butter. It's
our way of taking home
money. And we don't just
do runways here and there.
It really is our full
time job. Interesting. Okay. But
it sounds, it sounds like
you have a, at least
an understanding and a, and
an acknowledgement that the, the
kind of prototypical model's shape
isn't necessarily the shape of
regular people and it's, that
is shown on fit code.com.
You have normal looking people
of all sizes, both thin
and not so with it.
Yeah. This is something that
I'm pretty passionate about. So
the main reason I founded
fit code would be was
because I would be at
these shoots and I was
a size 27 and they'd
have one other size 27
girl. And they would try
the jeans on us and
whoever they fit, they would
shoot in them. And I
started realizing that, you know,
we have to look beyond
size and this is it
right here is that you
can have two girls the
same size and the jeans
look completely different on each
of them. So how do
we just take, you know,
the, the size question out
of the equation and how
do we just look at
a woman's body shape and
say, Hey, we're not here
to judge anything. Size is
just size. It's just a
number we don't care. Let's
look at your body shape.
Let's figure out what genes
are going to really fit
you and really flatter you.
Okay. So then I assume
that there was some point
where you had that aha
moment, right? You're you're at
Yano, you're at Chili's afterwards
after a long day of
shooting and you're sitting there
with a napkin and you're
like, I think I have
an idea here. I'm going
to make an index number.
That's not like a big
number. It doesn't mean a
big person. I'm going to
make a whole new way
to size things. Was there
a napkin? Was there, were
you there with a partner?
Yeah. You know, there were,
there were many napkins. So
I think anyone that's creative
product knows that it's never
just one napkin, one napkin
sets you on that path,
but then you have so
many iterations of your product.
And there was the aha
moment for me. And for
me, it was a little
different. It was not that
I knew that we needed
this product because I knew
we needed it. I knew
this was a problem. And
I knew I had a
very unique place to solve
it from, but it was
really that fear of, Hey,
if I don't do this,
someone else is going to,
and I'm passionate about solving
for women. And so if
I can be a woman
solving for women, I can,
I understand the product. I
understand the, you know, all
the things that go into
denim and go into making
them look good. So I
think I'm in a unique
place to solve this. And,
you know, I didn't, I
didn't want to miss out
on that. Are you a
technical cofounder or a non
technical founder? I'm a non
tactical cofounder. So both my
cofounder and I did not
come from a technology background.
I'm one of the first
people I brought on our
board member was technical. And
he really helped me build
out that technology side of
our business, which is most
of our business at this
point. And has that been
something where you have to
decide how technical you want
to be, or do you
have to consciously say, all
right, I understand how this
JavaScript works, but that's as
far as I need to
go, because I'm going to
focus on CEO stuff and
not CTO stuff. Yeah. You
know, I think there's an
interesting place. And I think
anyone who's been the CEO
or leadership in a company
knows the difference between working
on the business and working
in the business. And I
work in the business just
enough to make sure that
we are going the direction
that I know we need
to go, but I'm a
big, big fan of letting
experts be experts. And I
didn't bring on my developers
so that I can micromanage
them because I'm not qualified
to do that. You know,
the people who I bring
on in this company are
people who I trust and
I trust that they're going
to get the job done
and get it done really
well. And, you know, if
I was there trying to
tell him what to do,
then they're going to try
to do it one way
and they don't get to
use their creativity. So I,
you know, really pretty hands
off with my team and
I let them be creative
and try to figure out
the most agile and creative
solutions to these problems. So
you express the vision and
they can present to you.
Like you say, well, we
can do it with a
plugin and we can do
it with JavaScript. We can
do an, a back end
integration. And then how do
you make decision about which
of those things do, because
you could have integrated a
lot of this in a
backend as web APIs. Yeah,
absolutely. You know, I come
from the business and the
consumer point of view. So
when they present me with
all these issues, I always
are different, you know, solutions.
I always say, Hey, let's
bring it back to the
customer. What does the customer
want to use? I'm I'm
the consumer? Am I going
to use this? If the
answer is no, then let's
pivot, let's go to a
different direction. And then the
other thing that I really
think of is what is
the marketplace calling for? So
I'm the one that's out
talking to these brands, I'm
talking to these retailers and
I'm, you know, I have
to listen to what their
pain points are. And so
I bring that back to
the team and I say,
Hey, you know, this, this
solution you have is really
technical. And it's really, really
cool, but it's not needed
right now. So let's table
it. Let's put it in
the back burner and let's
get these partners what they
need right now. And what's
what their pain are. How
far along were you before
you started looking for a
investment, did you have a
minimally viable product, an MVP,
or did you have the
whole thing ready to go?
You know, it was really
just a, it was just
an idea that I had
when I went out and
got investments. So we needed
investment in order to build
a product at all because
it was technical. And so
I had to get investment
basically from day two. So
I talked to a lot
of people about this idea.
It was an interesting road
for me because it was
a very, very clear problem.
So people could understand the
problem, not only from the
business perspective, but they also
it's personal to them. You
know, whether you're a man
or a woman, you understand
how hard shopping online can
be and you get that,
you get that, you know,
we can make this easier.
So for me, all I
had to do is say,
Hey, this is a very,
very big problem returns account
for billions of dollars each
year for retail companies. And,
you know, we also understand
how it is to be
a consumer and how hard
it is to shop online.
That is an interesting point.
I mean, some people may
have be halfway into this
podcast and wondering like, why
does this matter? Maybe they're
not interested in fashion or
they're not interested in pants.
I am, but they might,
but now you just, you
just kind of crystallize it
for me returns, right? You're
buying a $80 pair of
jeans or a $30 pair
of jeans and $68 of
that may be shipping it.
And if I have to
ship it back then a
human has to open the
box and deal with the
box and make sure that
the jeans are still sellable
or appropriate. And if you
have to throw those away,
then you're losing money because
all that money comes out
of the profit for X
number of other genes. So
it sounds like returns are
the problem that you're solving
here as well as conversion.
Yeah. So the first thing
we do is we want
people to be comfortable shopping
online. So we have to
look at those conversion rates,
does this product work to
get people to purchase? And
then from there, of course,
it's, are they returning less?
So going into this, we
know that women specifically shopping
for denim online return over
50% of the jeans that
they purchase. So how do
we cut into that 50%?
Yes. Oh, that's really bad.
I've heard nightmare stories. I
was actually at a party
recently where someone was telling
me how their spouse abused
Zappos. And I felt really
bad for Zappos. I was
like, they buy 12 pairs
of shoes and they send
10 back. I mean, that's
really not cool. It's really
bad, but this is what
these companies have to do
in order to compete. So
they have to offer these
free returns and they have
to, you know, basically be
a try on service. It's
what they've turned into. And
so, you know, just like
your friend in her shoes,
it's the same thing with
denim. People buy four pairs
and return three and just
Skino keep the one that
fits. So how do we
get, how do we cut
into that? How do we
get women to only buy
two and know that those
two are going to fit
and that that's where fit
code comes in. And it
sounds like you're keeping metrics
because you're saying that consumers
are three to four times
more likely to convert. Once
they've got this fit code,
they've internalized it. And they
start shopping with that code
rather than with them. Yeah,
absolutely. So that's our biggest,
so our partners want to
sell more jeans. And so
if we can get their
customers to buy more genes,
that's, that's the number one
thing. And so the number
one thing we report on
is conversions. So just like
you said, we've seen that
with fit code, their customers
are shopping at three to
four times the rate. So
a conversion rate in e-commerce
a standard conversion rate is
2% meaning that 2% of
people who go to a
website like Nordstrom are going
to actually purchase something. So
how do we get that
higher will fit code does.
So if we have a
three to four times multiplier,
that means they're shopping anywhere
from six to 8% instead
of 2%. And that's, that's
big dollars for these companies.
Yeah. You were a working
model for eight years, plus
continue to be your CEO
now, but with all the
respect. And I say this
as someone who is not
familiar with how modeling works,
I think of modeling as
being a, a singular thing.
It's an individual thing. I,
you know, you, you're in
the show, if you're a,
for example, a walkout walking
model or a runway model
rather, or if you are
part of a campaign, you're
not giving creative feedback on
the campaign, I assume, but
when you're a CEO, you're,
you're flipping that you're in
charge. You make the statements,
you make the vision. How
does eight years of modeling
experience as a singular individual
translate into CEO type work?
You know, I think it
was eight years of being
frustrated that I was hearing
a problem that I knew
I could solve and wasn't
being asked to help. And
that was a really, really
powerful place for me to
come from. So, you know,
you talk to models and
the one thing you'll hear
over and over is that,
you know, we're just considered
a clothes hanger. And at
the end of the day
we are, and that's fine.
You know, like that's the
job we got into and
you get paid for it.
I don't think it is
fine. Well, it's not fine,
but you know, that's fine.
You're not mistreated, but you're
also not, you're not valued
for your problem solving ability
because that's not why they
hired you. They hired you
to make clothes look good.
And so for eight years,
I listened to this problem
and I looked, and I'd
listened to the retailers who
are offset complaining about return
rates and complain about the
state of the industry. And
so for me, while modeling,
you know, certainly wasn't business
school, it was this really,
really beautiful lesson. And here's
a problem that has dollars
tied to it. I have
a solution and going into
being a CEO from being
a model, it was the
coolest place because for a
year, as I had been
criticized and critiqued on things
I couldn't control, which was
things, you know, like how
you look and how, what
your appearance is. And suddenly
as a CEO, I could
say, Hey, anything, that's going
wrong in this product. I
can change. I have the
ability to change. And it
was awesome. It still is
awesome to say, you know,
anything that I'm being criticized
for now is just on
the product. And that means
I'm not doing a good
enough job listening to my
customers or to my partners
and all of those things
I can change. So it's
very, very empowering. Where else
did you pull your leadership
kind of inspiration from, because
there's your experience as a
model, which gives you the
problem space, the understanding of
the problem space. If I
understand correctly, when I did
research on you, were you
in fact, an NCAA athlete
as well? I was, I
swam for the university of
Washington as a varsity athlete
there. And I think I
got a lot of leadership
from sports as well. So
I was an athlete my
entire life. I've never shied
away from hard work, which
I think is really important
as a CEO and also
as a CEO of a
startup. But, you know, I
value dedication. I value commitment
and I'm not afraid of
little pain and having to
grind. And that's what athletics
taught me. Well, that's an
interesting point you bring up.
So people talk about, and
there's a lot of discussion
about this on Twitter, about
the startup lifestyle. And, you
know, if you don't put
110%, don't even bother showing
up and the idea of
work life balance and whether
or not, you know, the
grind is an appropriate thing.
I'm assuming when you go
and do startup lifestyle, you,
you know, you eat, live,
breathe your company, but personal
stuff also happens that can
throw you for a loop
in the middle of it
and really change your perspective
on your priorities. Yeah, absolutely.
So, you know, the first
year I think that fit
code was live. I not
only got married, but my
mom also passed away from
breast cancer and it was
this really tough time, but
it was also a moment
of clarity for me where,
you know, you read about,
and you hear from other
founders about how stressful and
how hard startup life can
be, because it's just has
an immense amount of pressure.
But I did that in
tandem with taking care of
my sick mom. And I
realized that every single stress
I felt during working hours,
that was a privilege because
that's not real stress, that's
a stress that's not happening
to you. You've chosen it.
Right. I chose to be
a founder. I chose to
be the CEO of a
startup. So therefore I can't
complain about these hours. I
can't complain about the stress
because these are choices. You
know, what was happening to
my mom was not a
choice and that's real stress.
So having that perspective, going
into being a CEO of
a startup was just invaluable
for me. And, you know,
I think about it almost
every day is, Hey, don't
complain, you chose this, anything
that's happening right now, these
are choices. And this is
a really, really fun process.
And you have to embrace
it. That is a really
interesting balance to find between
the stresses that you chose,
the, the, the stresses you
did, not the privileges that
you have, the privileges that
you don't and trying to
be, you know, not necessarily
responsible for everything that happens
to you, but accountable for
the things that happened to
you. Yeah, absolutely. And I
think it's also just the
perspective and understanding that that's
never going to end. So,
you know, going back to
funding, you can get millions
of dollars in funding and
think that that's going to
end your stress, but that
just means that you're scaling
your business and with that
comes more stress and more
problems. So it's really about
to pay that money back
to me. Exactly. Like, you
know, that's something, again that
I'm passionate about is investment
is debt. And, you know,
anyone that I hear that's
going through different investment phases,
I always remind them of
like, don't get addicted to
the cash. This is debt,
you know, be cashflow positive,
get addicted to the drive
to be cashflow positive because
that's where your power comes
from. Don't forget that investment
is still debt. So yeah.
So those stresses, all that
kind of thing. It's just
about perspective and realizing that
they're always going to be
there. You just have to
learn to mitigate them and
learn how to appreciate them.
Yeah. I think it's really
easy to be an armchair
quarterback and a person on
Twitter saying, Oh, wow, Ryan
got $3 million in funding. She's
probably driving a fancy car
now, but wait a second,
you have a dozen people
working for you or more.
Now you have a hundred
thousand users. I don't think
that you just get like
a big pile of gold
coins, right? When you get
your, your, your money. Absolutely
not. And especially as, you
know, founder, we all have
choices of, you know, what
salaries look like. And I've
said all along that, you
know, I pay my employees
first. So they, you know,
I have to pay them
the salaries cause I have
to keep them engaged and
keep them committed. And while
they love the project and
they love the product, I
have to support them. And
they all have families that
they have to support. So
I really come last when
it comes to that. So
anyone that thinks you can
found a startup and in
your first few years, you
know, be bringing home a
lot of money or delusional
because you're not, hopefully the
payoff is there in the
end. But again, for me,
it's never been about the
money it's been about making
this experience better for customers.
And if we do that,
maybe there will be a
payoff, but if not, then
it has been an awesome,
awesome ride. Well, yeah. I
certainly hope that you are
successful in doing that. It's
gotta be overwhelming though, to,
to have this idea and
have the, well, actually, let
me back up, let me
ask you this. It's been
three years now, since you
founded the company, are you
where you thought you'd be
at three years or did
you know that this would
be a multiyear long and
not multi-month long ride? That's
a great question. No one's
ever asked me that. I
didn't know. Yeah. I didn't
know what to think. I
didn't go to business school.
I had never done this
before. I also didn't do
a lot of extensive reading
on startups going into this.
And I did that purposefully
because I just like I
do with my team. I
wanted to have the creativity
to solve this problem the
right way and not be
constrained by the way other
people have done things. So
I had no idea where
I should be at this
point. If, if I could
go back, I think I'd
be really, really proud of
where we are now. You
know, we're becoming a nationally
recognized brand, which is awesome.
We have incoming PR, which
is awesome. We're integrating with
some of the biggest denim
brands in the country. So
I don't think I could
have dreamed that we would
be where we are today,
if not only because of
the success we've had, but
also the direction we've gone.
So we have pivoted so
many times because like I
said, we constantly are listening
to what customers and partners
need. So I couldn't have
predicted that we'd be integrating
right on partner websites using
JavaScript and going to men
so soon. And then also
just having this abundance of
data that is really valuable
for these partners. So I
couldn't predict any of those
things. That's interesting. I didn't
even realize that now that
you're developing this data, the
bigger that, that database and
that the more valuable that
algorithm has that will not
only affect existing inventory and
existing inventory of genes, but
potentially new manufacturing of clothing.
Absolutely. So this has been
a byproduct of fit code,
which again, I didn't predict,
but has been awesome is
that we suddenly have this
customer data that these brands
have never seen before. So
if you think about the
way that a denim brand
makes jeans, they have a
fit model, come in, she's,
you know, maybe five, nine
a size 27, and they
make all their genes off
this one model. And so
suddenly we can go to
these brands and we say,
Hey, since we've integrated on
your site, we now know
by body shape exactly who
your customer base is. We
can break that down by
percentage. So we know that
33% is the shape and
another 20% is the shape.
Let's start making your jeans
to actually fit your customer.
And we hold fit sessions
with our partners, where we
bring real women in their
real customer based body shape.
And, and they get to
try those jeans on, in
the design process now. So
we can say, Hey, this
Gene's working. This Gene's not,
let's increase our rise here
or decrease the back rise
here. And let's really make
sure that we're aligning your
denim for your customer base.
That's interesting. I didn't think
about that demographic data in
that way. This is data
that really is going to
improve people's lives. It's anonymized
data. You don't have to
worry about privacy concerns because
it's really just the demographics
of these are the people
that are buying these jeans
and you should make more
of those. That's a fantastic
bit of insight. Exactly. It
has just been awesome to
be able to consult with
our partners on that. Fantastic.
Well, thank you so much
for chatting with me, Ryan Buckley,
the fit code co founder
and CEO. Thank you so
much, Scott. It's been a
pleasure. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.